Annie Flora, Amelia Jay, Sophia Prochnow 
Operating Systems Project
Final Write Up

	Throughout this semester we learned a lot of valuable information about the inner workings of the operating system. We learned the difference between different operating systems and what is unique about each of them. As we began our semester long project, we did our research on unique Linux modules and what each output. Before this class, we only knew a few basic commands such as cd which we knew changed the current directory and ls which lists files or folders in that directory. By conducting research, we learned about some important commands such as chmod (sets file permissions), curl, find (tracks down files), grep (searches for lines which contain something), history, ps, pwd, sudo (perform actions that require superuser permissions), tar, and many others. These all ended up being very useful during our project work. 
	When we eventually discovered the w command, we each agreed that we enjoyed the simplicity of the module, however thought its display was slightly unclear. Because of this we decided this would be the command we would focus our energy on. We read many articles on the w command and found out that its output provides a quick summary of every user logged into a computer, what each user is currently doing, and what load all the activity is imposing on the computer itself. The load refers to the amount of computational work that a computer system preforms and with the w command, it is displayed in the form of three numbers which represent the system load during the last one, five, and fifteen minutes. 
	Our overall project idea was to clean up this w command. We wanted to make it easier for users to find the information they were viewing. This would consist of labeling data and fixing spacing and alignment. The header in the w command includes the current time, current system runtime, number of users, and load averages. These values are not clearly labeled, so we wanted to fix this. We also thought it would be a fun idea to color coordinate the labeled output. 
	The next step for our project was to download Ubuntu and VirtualBox. This required a lot of patience as we had to mess around with storage on our MacBooks. Our perseverance paid off when it finally downloaded on all of our computers. The next struggle became getting VirtualBox to run our operating system. Finally, after trying multiple different times on our computers, we got lucky and Annie’s began to work. Once this was up and running, we searched through countless kernel folders looking for the w.c file but were unable to find it. Throughout our search, we were able to better familiarize ourselves with Linux commands. Finally, we reached out to BJ for help and he discovered a w.procps file. We ran “apt-get source procps” on our command line which downloaded the source for us into the directory called “procps-3.3.15/”. In this directory we were able to find the w.c! 
	Once we discovered the w.c code, we decided to compile it and run it on the command line to see what it would output. However, when we attempted to run it without any modifications, it would not even compile due to syntax errors in the original code and code that was in included files in w.c. Some of the errors such as the include file extension errors we were able to fix when we changed them to the correct file path. But, after changing these and the spelling mistake errors, we were still left with a semantic error in locale.h which was an included file in w.c. This error stated “unexpected identifier or ‘(‘ before ‘;’ token. We tried multiple things to fix this, but we were unable to resolve the error. 
	Since time was running out and we were stuck with an unavoidable error, we decided to simply write our own c code with the print statements we would have modified in the w.c file. This code included labels for the data outputted and printed the results in color. We hard coded the values which would have been called in the w.c. The printed result we were able to create ended up being exactly what we had envisioned, so we were happy with the work we put in. 
	Overall, we learned a lot from this semester long project. We learned how the commands interact with the operating system and how helpful some of these commands are when searching though the terminal. We will now be able to use these commands in future classes and on projects. We also learned about project management and how to use frequent feedback and collaborative decision making. We were able to use agile project management continually inspect and adapt our project and ideas. We made sure we had set meetings where we could discuss what was going well and what needed to be worked on. This helped us to stay on track with our project and deliveries. 
	
